Software 0.31.0 release notes (#1554)
astronomer/docs: software/release-notes.md

<!--- Version-specific -->

0.31 is the latest stable version of Astronomer Software, while 0.30 remains the latest long-term support (LTS) release. To upgrade to 0.31, see [Upgrade Astronomer](upgrade-astronomer.md). For more information about Software release channels, see [Release and lifecycle policies](release-lifecycle-policy.md). To read release notes specifically for the Astro CLI, see [Astro CLI release notes](cli-release-notes.md).

## 0.31.0

Release date: November 29, 2022

### New root user role

> Astronomer Software's role-based access control (RBAC) system now has support for a single root user per installation. The root user has a non-configurable username and autogenerated password stored as a Kubernetes secret in your installation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer Software's role-based access control (RBAC) system now supports a single root user for each installation. The root user has a non-configurable username and autogenerated password stored as a Kubernetes secret in your installation. 
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/204354783-a50b2e2a-fc6f-4ba0-8efa-3eb7acd79067.png)

Configure a root user if your organization has strict security requirements and wants to limit certain administrative tasks to a single hard-coded user profile. See [Create a root user](create-a-root-user.md).

### Manage Astronomer users through a SCIM integration 

Astronomer Software now supports managing users through System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM), which allows you to automatically provision and deprovision users based on templates for access and permissions. See [Manage users with SCIM](integrate-auth-system.md#manage-users-with-scim).

### Invite users only through Teams

> Using thew new root user feature, you can now configure Astronomer Software so that users are managed exclusively through Teams. This helps you better integrate with your identity provider (IdP) by ensuring that all users on your platform are authenticated and managed through the IdP. See [Disable individual user management](import-idp-groups.md#disable-individual-user-management).

Reviewer 2: Also @cmarteepants, is it intentional to say that the managing exclusively through teams is done using the new root user feature only?

> Using thew new root user feature, you can now configure Astronomer Software so that users are managed exclusively through Teams. This helps you better integrate with your identity provider (IdP) by ensuring that all users on your platform are authenticated and managed through the IdP. See [Disable individual user management](import-idp-groups.md#disable-individual-user-management).

Author: ```suggestion
Using the new root user feature, you can now configure Astronomer Software so that users are managed exclusively through Teams. This helps you better integrate with your identity provider (IdP) by ensuring that all users on your platform are authenticated and managed through the IdP. See [Disable individual user management](import-idp-groups.md#disable-individual-user-management).
```

> Using thew new root user feature, you can now configure Astronomer Software so that users are managed exclusively through Teams. This helps you better integrate with your identity provider (IdP) by ensuring that all users on your platform are authenticated and managed through the IdP. See [Disable individual user management](import-idp-groups.md#disable-individual-user-management).

Author: My understanding is that it's an implied requirement because you can't assign System Admin roles without a root user, hence you would be locked into whatever system users you have at the time you enable this. Is that what orgs using this feature want?

> ### View and export task usage metrics

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ### View and export task usage metrics

Reviewer 2: Given that we are going in a disabled state, are we still documenting this feature? cc: @cmarteepants

> You can now view and export task usage metrics from the Software UI.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Astronomer Software now supports a task-based pricing model. As part of the model, you can now view and export task usage metrics from the Software UI.

Reviewer 2: Even if we are documenting this feature, I think we should not talk about it in the context of a pricing model. We should just talk about task usage views being added to the application. wdyt @cmarteepants ?

> Astronomer Software now supports a task-based pricing model. As part of the model, you can now view and export task usage metrics from the Software UI.

Author: ```suggestion
You can now view and export task usage metrics from the Software UI.
```

> Task usage metrics provide an overview of your Airflow task runs and can help you quickly identify Deployments where more tasks are running or failing than expected. 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> To configure the feature, see [Set up task usage metrics](task-usage-metrics.md).

Author: ```suggestion
```

> In addition to ensuring that you get priced correctly for your task runs, task usage metrics provide an overview of your Airflow task runs and can help you quickly identify Deployments where more tasks are running or failing than expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Task usage metrics provide an overview of your Airflow task runs and can help you quickly identify Deployments where more tasks are running or failing than expected. Metrics can also help make sure that your organization is being billed correctly for your task runs, 
```

### New default resource limits and requests 

Astronomer Software 0.31 includes new default resource limits and requests on the following resources: 

- Alertmanager
- Elasticsearch
- NATS
- PostrgeSQL
- STAN
- Nginx
- Grafana
- Blackbox exporter

You might experience OOMKill errors or unexpected behavior after upgrading if you use resources beyond the new default limits. To minimize disruption, view resource usage for these components in [Grafana](grafana-metrics.md) prior to upgrade and compare this usage to the default resource limits in the [Astronomer Helm chart](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/astronomer/values.yaml). 

> If your current usage is expected and higher than the default resource limits, update the limits in your `config.yaml` file prior to upgrading to Astronomer Software 0.31.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your current usage is expected and higher than the default resource limits, update the limits in your `config.yaml` file before upgrading to Astronomer Software 0.31.
```

### Additional improvements 

> - You can now set a custom security context for `es-client` setting `elasticsearch.client.securityContext.capabilities.add={}` in the ElasticSearch Helm chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now set a custom security context for `es-client` by setting `elasticsearch.client.securityContext.capabilities.add={}` in the ElasticSearch Helm chart.
```

> - Deployment users are now paginated in the Software UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deployment users are now paginated in the Software UI.
```
Not sure how a user is paginated....

Reviewer 2: The Deployment users view is now paginated in the UI. I am not sure we should call it "Software UI"

- You can now set `astronomer.registry.logLevel` to filter which types of logs appear in your Docker registry.

> - Changed the default Git sync interval from 0 to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The default Git sync interval is now 1 instead of 0.
```

- You can now configure a Deployment to have 0 triggerer components.
- You can now set `astronomer.houston.config.useAutoCompleteForSensativeFields=false` to disable autocomplete on sensitive fields in the Software UI.
- You can now set `astronomer.houston.config.shouldLogUsername=true` to include user email addresses in audit logs for logins through the Houston API.

> - Git sync-based Deployments now have a dedicated git-sync relay pod, service, and network policy.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Git sync-based Deployments](deploy-git-sync.md) now have a dedicated git-sync relay pod, service, and network policy.
```

> - Git sync-based Deployments now have a dedicated git-sync relay pod, service, and network policy.

Reviewer 2: This is a bigger feature and probably deserves a sentence or two more. @jwitz can you work with @danielhoherd to add a little more detail. If not, at least hyperlink to the documentation that talks about the git sync relay service.

  
### Bug fixes

- The Software UI now stores user tokens with `httpOnly` and `secure` flags.
- Fixed an issue where the Software UI would occasionally show an incorrect **Extra AU** number for Deployments. 
- Fixed the following vulnerabilities:

    - [CVE-2022-37601](https://security.snyk.io/vuln/SNYK-JS-LOADERUTILS-3043105)
    - [CVE-2022-43680](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-43680)
    - [CVE-2022-40674](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-40674)
  

> - Fixed an issue where you could not access Astronomer Software's Docker registry if you had access to more than 100 Deployments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where you could not access the Astronomer Software Docker registry if you had access to more than 100 Deployments. 
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure I understand this. Can you point me to the GH issue that led you to this description?

Author: @vishwas-astro https://github.com/astronomer/issues/issues/5204

> - Fixed an issue where the Software UI did not correctly show the correct dates for when service accounts were last used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where the Software UI did not correctly show the correct last used dates for service accounts. 
```

Reviewer 2: "correctly show the correct" does not sound great!

> - Fixed an issue where NATS would send spurious alert emails for Deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where NATS would send false Deployment alert emails.
```

> - Fixed an issue where the configuration in `astronomer.houston.updateRuntimeCheck.url` was ignored if not all supported Deployment image versions are present in the destination URL. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where the configuration in `astronomer.houston.updateRuntimeCheck.url` was ignored if not all supported Deployment image versions were present in the destination URL. 
```
